In this video I'll explain the taps and nicknaming and how the timing method that we select can impact
the number of taps that are created.
So when we create a logical switchin and Isaak's and we're going to have a VSE fair distributed switch
running in the background and the logical switch is really providing vivax land on top of a distributed
switch.
So we actually are still going to have a VSE for a distributed switch that is going to have VM next.
Our physical adapters and those are going to be the physical adapters that are logical switches use.
So because of this level of integration between the very distributed switch and the logical switch our
configuration and the distributed switch may have an impact on the number of taps created for our logical
switch.
So for example in this slide we see Nick teaming by originating port ID nicknaming method and this is
one of the possible nicknaming methods that's available on TVs for distributed switch.
And with this Nic teaming method what essentially happens is each virtual machine is bound to a physical
adapter based on the virtual port that it's connected to on our vees fair distributed switch.
So in this case each VM is only going to be using a single physical adapter at any given moment in time
and each VM is going to stay bound to that specific physical adapter unless it fails.
Now how does this affect the Vieuxtemps of our logical switch.
Well in this case we have four VM next.
So for creating a logical switch that's working with this Vee's for a distributed switch there's going
to be one v tap per physical adapter and each virtual machine will be bound to a tap much like they
were tied to a VM Nic in the previous slide.
And each tap is associated with a single physical adapter.
So in this scenario if we create a logical switch on a distributed switch that has four V.M. next and
is using this nicknaming method will have 4 v taps and the results are very similar with Nic teaming
by source Mac hash.
So here we see each virtual machine is bound to a specific VM neck based on the source MAC address and
each VM has a unique MAC and based on that Mac the VM is tied to a specific physical adapter.
This affects our taps in a very similar fashion.
We're going to have one V-Tech per physical adapter and each VM will be tied to a specific tab and all
of its traffic will flow through that particular V-Tech So in this case we have four taps yet again.
We can also configure Nic teaming by IP hash.
So if we're using IP hash Nic teaming.
What happens is as virtual machines are communicating with different destinations different physical
adapters are used in the physical adapter selected is based on the source IP of the virtual machine
and the destination IP that it's communicating with.
So in this case our virtual machine has an IP address of IP 1 and it's sending some traffic to a destination
we'll call it destination 1.
And if this virtual machine now sends some other traffic to some different destination the source IP
remains the same.
But we're going to have a different destination IP address.
So therefore a different physical adapter will be used.
Now how does this impact our taps.
There will only be one type created when using IP hash load balancing and each VM will use this single
V-Tech.
But the traffic leaving the tap will be balanced across multiple physical adapters based on the destination
IP.
So for example we have a single V-Tech created here and VM one will send all of its traffic that's headed
for our underlay physical network through this V-Tech.
But this V-Tech may be communicating with one ESX I host or maybe setting traffic to 10 different ESX
hosts or maybe more.
So for each of those ESX I hosts there's going to be different taps and those types are going to have
different destination IP addresses.
So as this traffic flows into the tap traffic to different hosts will use different physical adapters
because of the different destination IP addresses in review a few key concepts.
Taps our VM kernel ports.
These are going to encapsulate frames with outer headers that allow this traffic to traverse the physical
network the original source and destination IP and Mac are hidden within an entire.
And the number of taps is going to vary based on the NICS teaming method that we select if we're choosing
originating virtual pour ID or source Mac hash we'll have one tap per VM Nic if we're choosing IP hash
there will be only one V-Tech created.